So, that's great for something that
does not kind of take any argument.
And sometimes that's true, right?
They hit the logout button, a lot of
times there's not extra information that
you need to give it's like user is login
out or like this thing was clicked,
I need to do a thing.
But sometimes, if we're adding a task,
sometimes it's helpful.
Tell me more.
[LAUGH] What task did they add?
What action did they take with
the counter or what have you, right?
Depending on what you're working on.
And so, yeah,
we have payloads a lot of times and
Redux itself doesn't really care.
It's like as long as you got action type.
Wild West for
anything else in that object.
Use, reduce, and
react literally doesn't care.
It could be a number,
it could be undefined for all it cares.
But there is a pattern, it was
originally called Flux standard actions.
And the kind of there's a meta
property and some other things.
But the two major pieces is the structure
of the action in a way that has a type,
which is the same string that we know and
love.
Like what happened?
And I'll payload and
making sure that instead of having a bunch
of keys spread throughout this object and
letting everyone your team
guess where you put everything.
Just having a payload as a standard place
to make sure you don't have collisions or
anything like that this is kind of
where all the different pieces go.
You are for those keys and I bet you
wanna just tell the pillar to be a number
depending on what you want,
all of those things are totally cool.
It is up to you but that is the convection
that has been worldly popularized
at this point and so that is what
the truly would give you out of the box.
What is really great about this
is that in the very beginning for
some of those types there's
not a lot that you need to do.
So, for instance if you say add
task is gonna take an action and
we'll talk about like why went about
do is gonna be slightly problematic and
the second, but we'll go for
it, we'll start with just action first,
I'll show you what happens there.
And so, in this case, we'll say our state
which is we say, state, you'll notice that
it is fully typed it knows the initial
state, it's all set up and ready to go.
And if I try to push
on the action.payload,
this case it will work cuz I
believe that counts as any.
Now, I talked a lot
about TypeScript before,
one any in a code base is infectious.
And so, this is not an array that can be
anything we clearly said it should only be
tasks, but as soon as you say
that something is any TypeScript,
I don't know what to do with you,
I give up.
Luckily, adding a type to this
is relatively straightforward.
If you look at this,
this is just a JavaScript function.
Nothing special here, right?
And we get kind of like a type
system kind of supported in here.
So, there are a bunch of different ones,
there's action but
then we want the one that action that
has a payload, that's payload action.
And then all you have to do is say
what type it should be getting.
Alex, what's up?
>> Yeah, just a couple of quick questions.
So, here I'm seeing you create the slice,
and you create a bunch of reducers.
And I remember in vanilla React Redux,
every action and
is dispatched to every reducer.
>> Yeah.
>> How does it act here?
Does only the reducers from this list
gonna receive those actions or no?
>> So, everything you know about
Redux is still true, right?
And that is a really great question,
we will also cover later.
I'll give you a,
we'll do the sneak peek now, right?
So, Alex's question was hey,
don't every action go to every reducer cuz
combined reducers just taking a bunch
of functions and running it there,
it's just wiring up for you.
These by default are bound to the slice,
there is a another property
here called extra reducers, right,
which are one of the things that
this slice is not in charge of
that it might need to deal with.
So, at one point later today
we're gonna do the feature,
which is if like we remove a user from
a list, unassign all their tasks, right?
What I don't wanna have to do to
your point is dispatch two actions,
one to the user's slice,
one to the tasks slice.
I just wanna say, yo, user was removed,
unassign their stuff.
All right, and like make it happen.
So, there's actually a really great syntax
and the nice part about this is even with
that, even when it's like
everything listens to everything,
we will get full TypeScript support,
right?
And we will get the full type safety with
other than right now writing the type for
the state, which I just use cuz I
didn't want to write it in line,
we've written very little TypeScript for
full type safety, right?
And I guess this typing this action right
here, say like, this will be a task.
And what's nice about this is now
I get all the safety that can
autocomplete it and
stuff along those lines.
And now kind of if we look at this action,
it assumes that that payload is a task.
It will not let me accidentally call
methods so on and so forth, right?
A lot of the error proneness of using
redox is, it's a bunch of conditionals or
switch statement, and
you mistyped the action type, right?
Or you call the wrong property on
the object cuz you forgot the actual
shape of it.
So, stopping a lot of the mistakes and
not really asking for much for
you in return, right?
You get most of this for
free at this point.
And you can just kind of use
it is really pretty great.
So again, if we say,
tasksSlice and we look at it now,
it's action creator
with a payload task and
we'll dispense that action.
So, even when we tried to call it,
it will, like expect that the payload is
a task, and make sure that we are handing
it valid data, when we use it wherever our
UI, whether that's react or something
else as well, all of that will be there.
And so
vast if you aren't a JavaScript code base,
you will not get the enforcement but
you will get the helpful,
hover over answers to
everything along the way.
And so, the benefits are still there for
something that you can very
easily use today in your initial,
in your existing infrastructure.
And so, instead of,
just because I don't wanna scroll down,
I'm just gonna say unshift.
Unshift puts it at the beginning
of the array versus the end.
So that when I hit the button and
I go, it doesn't work, it does work,
I just have to scroll or
put it at the top.
So we'll have that in place,
it'd be great.
And we'll kind of move to our first
kind of little challenge here.
Which is, what does this look
like if I wanna migrate?
Let's say like, this is cool, I like the
fact that it wires up all of this for me,
what are the pieces that make this up that
I could use in my existing code base,
right?
So, I have that little counter app for
you to play around with and I will kind of
show you a little bit and to give you kind
of just an excuse to try it out in an app,
but I will kind of show you some
of the general pattern first,
before I cut you loose on that.
So, I'm just gonna make a scratch file
that I'm not gonna keep real quick.
Yes?
>> Would you talk real quick
about why it's called a slice?
>> I would love to.
Naming things is hard,
it's like a slice of your application.
I guess the answer is no, I can't
talk about why it's called a slice.
I personally, If I'm being candid and
honest, it's not my favorite name for
a thing.
>> Well,
I guess they were talking about children.
>> Yeah.
>> [INAUDIBLE] better call.
>> Yeah, there's a bunch of names,
yeah, the joke that
bears repeating is the two hard problems
computer science are naming things,
cache invalidation off by one errors,
right, naming things is hard.
Yeah, I remember it's one of those things
where it's the first time I heard that I
was like, I'm not taking that seriously.
And now it's been four years and
I don't think about it anymore.
So, I agree with you,
I feel that same initial thought.
>> I've always thought about
it as like a slice of the pie.
>> Yeah.
>> I but I'm from Jersey, so I think
about everything in terms of pizza.
>> Sure.
>> Yeah, awesome.
So, imagine if you will,
we had a simple reducer look like this.
This is regular old redox this is like hi,
I'm learning on React, I guess I
have some type information in here.
But other than that, it is kind of just
a regular, this could be useReducer for
React.
This could be anything,
it doesn't matter, right?
This is just the general pattern.
It's technically not even Redux because
it's just a reducer function and
this idea of an action type.
And you're like, I would like
to to migrate from this, right?
The slice thing seems cool, but
it's like automatically naming actions,
I can't do any of this.
All of the pieces
are available to you as well.
So, let's kind of talk about what
this would look like if we wanted
to migrate it and get a sense,
that will help us understand a little bit,
what's kind of going under the hood here?
And so, there are some,
slices are made up from two component
pieces that are just regular redux ideas.
One is this createAction,
right and createAction,
there have been libraries that you
could use that have done the similar
thing that I think are great and
a createAction is just trying to
give you a standard way of
making an action creator.
Action creator is a function that formats
the action that you had to dispatch,
right?
And normally,
it was one of those best practices that
we were just supposed to know how to do.
Nothing forces you to do it, nothing made
you do it, but we're supposed to do it and
we're all supposed to hope that everyone
on the team did it consistently and
in the same way.
And there's a lot of smiling and
nodding going on right now because we
all know that that's not how that works,
right?
Especially as the team grows,
it becomes harder.
So, with createAction, we can just say,
what is the type of this action?
So, for instance, if I needed actions,
I could say increment.
Same way I did before.
And then I give it some function.
And let's say in this case,
what do you want?
If I don't give it anything, I will
actually get a valid action out of it.
So, I can say.
We've got to save that in
some kind of variable, right?
Can't reference stuff you
don't save in variables.
And we call it,
you will see that I get a valid,
actually, I get hand to dispatch.
What is even better, thouogh.
If I go incrementAction .type,
it's because functions are objects, so
you can put properties on functions.
That is the type.
So all of that kind of ceremony that we
used to have to do of like, all right,
I'm gonna make a bunch of constants.
That's the string in all caps so
that I can't mistype it, and
my code will now compile if I say
success has like 1C or 4Ss in it or
something along those lines,
you will get this for free.
So now you could actually if
you look on increment too.
It is also increment.
So now, you can pass, later on,
you could actually say we'll
refactor it right now actually.
So, the same function that creates
your actions lets you dispatch them,
you can also use an irregular reducer,
right?
And this will be now the actions that
come out of that increment action creator
will be of the type increment and the
functions type property is also the same.
So, now you've removed all of this
make constants for the action types,
you remove the entire file
where you make action creators,
all that very chore level stuff
that you had to do, gone, right.
And if it does take a payload,
the nice part about this one is that
payload is not undefined or
something, right.
It is assuming that the payload on this
type of this increment action is in fact
not defined because we did not define it.
So, if you accidentally tried
to call a payload on it, and
you're using TypeScript,
you get yelled at.
And for the ones where you do define
a payload, you will make sure that you're
using the right properties with
almost no work from yourself.
And I love when I get
good things with no work.
That's the best.
We've got this increment and
then what we can do is let's say we do
want to take some kind of payload, right?
So, action graders I usually use the
pattern for making sure we get we want.
So, I could say something
like Amount is a number.
And that will give me back,
I do have to format it in the payload, so
let's make it a full function so
it's clear for everyone.
I can say return an object
that has the payload.
And you can either say it's
the amount like that or
you can make it an amount
key on an object.
Whatever you think you're gonna need,
like in this silly example,
like I think this is fine.
And you already get a hint on the number
of squiggly lines that I have down here
where things are upset with me.
Which is now I have to
call this with a number.
And it will know that
the payload is a number, so,
I get full TypeScript support once again,
and again,
autocomplete if I'm using JavaScript, no
work whatsoever, it's just there for me.
And like I said before, this reducer
has nothing to do with redox toolkit.
It's just a thing that you can have and
use right now and
it's battle tested types, it's crazy.
There's a conditional now you can go
click and look at, it's a lot of fun.
And if you really don't even want
pull in the dependency, go and
steal the types, right?
You can actually do some
of these patterns as well.
But I think it's a way to figure out a lot
of the best practices cuz these are kinda
the battle tested agreed upon pieces.
And, I am using this on, a sophisticated
application right now, and that seem very,
brush my shoulder off.
But on a big application, and I can
guarantee that it's serves and scales,
there's my personal guarantee.
So, we have that in place, and
now if I said, something like three,
you'll see that I get,
the correctly typed action.
We have all those things in place and
it will now know if I say,
it now as knows the payload
in this case is a number.
Everything is typed, I don't think
I wrote a single type in this file.
I guess I wrote these ones that I'm not
using that were already in the file for
counteraction but
I didn't write a single type,
I've got full TypeScript
support in here as well, right?
And so, it's kind of interesting we can
kind of put all of these things together
and have it available for us, and
it's all on there and ready to go.
And like I said before, you can use
it with anything that you want.